
https://medium.com/@MileyCyrus/innovators-vs-dinosaurs-5f40cfd29bc5

#### Innovators vs. Dinosaurs {.metabar-drawerTitle}

* * * * *

Innovators vs. Dinosaurs {#0607 .graf--h2 .graf--first name="0607" data-align="center"}
------------------------

#### A Happy Hippie op-ed {#052b .graf--h4 name="052b" data-align="center"}

***by Miley Cyrus***
マイリー・サイラス
\

![](https://d262ilb51hltx0.cloudfront.net/max/800/1*lRLnWMYc1LiALmXDhn9mNA@2x.png)

![](https://d262ilb51hltx0.cloudfront.net/max/2000/1*6XCYvfRPgHNR6QrV25lPhg.jpeg)

去年の11月、トランスジェンダーの女の子 Leelah Alcorn が自殺したの。とても辛かった。知り合いの自殺のように辛く感じたわ。一方で、彼女とのつながりも感じたの。この一年くらい、ホームレスの若者を支援してきたから。その活動を通じて、ホームレスな10代のうち40％が自分のことを LGBT だと認識していると聞いたときはショックだったわ。トランスジェンダーな人にとって「生きていく」ことがどういったことなのか。それを知るにつれ、トランスジェンダーであることがホームレスになってしまうこととどう繋がるのかも分かってきたの。つまり、受け入れてもらう、存在を認めてもらうことが若者がホームレスになってしまうのを防ぐ特効薬だ、ということなのよ。自分らしく、ありたい自分であることと、性別・性的傾向・体格・人種・年齢はまったく関係ないんだから。

LGBT の人達に対する差別問題については、これまでにも色々と発言してきたわ。そういった人達が周りから孤立してしまうと、働くこと、地域の一員として暮らすこと、家や家族を持つことなんかがすごく大変になると思うから。そして、それが彼ら/彼女らがホームレスに陥ってしまう原因になってしまうの。LGBT のコミュニティで起きている様々な問題をもっと知りたいと思うようになったわ。トランスジェンダーの女性に対する暴力、HIV/AIDS、家族に理解してもらえず逆に強く非難される LGBT の人達の問題……この世にあるすばらしいものが実を結ぶにはなんであれ時間がかかるけど、時間をかければきっと変えていけるはず。だから、今日ここに Happy Hippie Foundation を立ち上げるの。すべての人生には意義があって、自分の存在意義が何か分からず迷う人達も安心して暮らせるようにしていくべきだと思うから。

![](https://d262ilb51hltx0.cloudfront.net/max/600/1*vvCSdY_z1qAdCiIrb9PYjg.jpeg)

![](https://d262ilb51hltx0.cloudfront.net/max/600/1*2MhRwBfiAaPLzznZivJy8A.jpeg)

![](https://d262ilb51hltx0.cloudfront.net/max/1200/1*KvUQnRq-FmqopzJenpfopw.jpeg)

Art starts as a blank canvas and has to be painted on by someone with a
vision to become a piece of art. We are our own canvases — we should be
free to create anything we want our lives to be!

The Happy Hippie Foundation is encouraging people to be the artists of a
picture of true freedom, freedom of self-expression… freedom to be true
to themselves. The fight to be free isn’t over. We have to rally
together and fight injustice. Being a happy hippie means making others
happy, even those unlike yourself! Happy Hippie Foundation isn’t just
focusing on one problem; I am young and there is so much to fight for,
learn, and be passionate about. Homeless youth and young people
experiencing the negative effects of being LGBT in our world today is an
issue that is very common and extremely current. I am honored to be a
part of this movement and living in a time to witness the revolution!
Bruce Jenner spoke beautifully about using his platform and fame to DO
GOOD and to make real change, and I want to do exactly that!

Change is what we need and what young people are counting on! Living a
life untrue to who you really are makes life unbearable for human beings
with feelings and emotions — like love, maybe the greatest one of them.
Pointless judgment and its consequences are unfortunately way too
common. All humans have valid feelings and rights!

No one should have to hide who they really are, no matter what his or
her name, gender, status or orientation. That’s why happy hippies are
here to say that every life is valuable and it is our mission to make
sure those who question the value of themselves and their lives feel
protected and loved by us… which they very much are.

![](https://d262ilb51hltx0.cloudfront.net/max/2000/1*ysiu0WlzXXyyztyLa40bcw.jpeg)

Happy Hippie has raised and donated money so that homeless young people
at My Friend’s Place shelter in LA will receive food and clean socks and
underwear for the next two years. While clean socks and underwear seem
normal to us, they aren’t to the 1.6 million homeless young Americans
without them. They will also receive more than 60,000 meals and snacks.

The loyalty of animals and the freedom of art are huge parts of my life.
When brought into the homeless community, they are proven interventions
that help build skills and provide the emotional supports that help
homeless youth rebuild their lives. The best part of making art is that
there is no right or wrong. It is the expression of what we feel — a
freedom that has been taken away from so many of these young people. We
want to help give it back to them. Happy Hippie programs include the
supplies and equipment to encourage this self-expression. We are also
funding animal companion programs, which build health status and can
provide a loyal friend to those who need one most.

When we learned about the possibility to increase NY funding for
homeless youth to \$4.5 million, we wrote to Governor Cuomo, Speaker
Heastie, and Leader Skelos to support the move. My fans added their
support through an online petition, and the budget passed. We are making
big changes! Youth fighting for youth! Happy Hippie’s current project is
creating digital support groups that will simulate physical support
groups for LGBT youth. This will be a safe and moderated place that
utilizes technology so young people and their families can join in no
matter where they live.

This is just the beginning for me and Happy Hippie. Thousands have
joined our community and our fight for acceptance and justice for those
who aren’t getting it!

We are working with some of the top names in politics, technology, and
entertainment to build the world that we want to live in. I want to give
my fans a platform to learn about issues that they might not have
otherwise, a safe place to ask questions, a place to collaborate and
take action! There is a new generation about to take over and I hope
that we can create a happier and freer world to live in. We are all
still growing, learning, and evolving…. And so should our world. There
are billions of different people on this earth… and they all deserve to
be happy.

[![](https://d262ilb51hltx0.cloudfront.net/max/800/1*WoyxZRynnqQ44RDRm0Dktg@2x.png)](http://www.happyhippies.org/#donate)

* * * * *

*Officially launched*[*The Happy Hippie
Foundation*](https://www.facebook.com/HappyHippieFoundation)*yesterday
with ‪\#‎HappyHippiePresents‬: Backyard Sessions! Watch the full video
of me performing “*No Freedom*” and*“Different”*with Joan Jett, and
donate to help us raise funds to create digital support groups for LGBT
youth and their families.*

*The Happy Hippie Foundation is dedicated to fight the injustices faced
by homeless youth, LGBT youth and other vulnerable populations. To learn
more about the foundation,*[*click
here*](http://miley.lk/happyhippie)*.*

[](http://www.happyhippies.org/)[**The Happy Hippie Foundation**\
*The Happy Hippie Foundation rallies young people to fight
injustice.*www.happyhippies.or](http://www.happyhippies.org/ "http://www.happyhippies.org/")g

RecommendRecommended

BookmarkBookmarked

Share

More

* * * * *

