**A New Golden Age of Architecture** {#b675 .graf--h2 .graf--first .graf--last name="b675" data-align="center"}
------------------------------------

建築の新たなる黄金期

* * * * *

> Did you know that architecture is in a crisis?

建築が危機に瀕してるって、ご存知でしたか？

It’s a major crisis that has recently hit a high note in the media.
Almost daily we are bombarded by news that architecture [is
imploding](http://www.forbes.com/sites/justinshubow/2015/01/06/architecture-continues-to-implode-more-insiders-admit-the-profession-is-failing/)!
Contemporary buildings [are
ugly](http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/16/opinion/how-to-rebuild-architecture.html?_r=0)!
Architects have [lost their
relevance](http://www.dezeen.com/2014/01/16/opinion-sam-jacob-how-architecture-can-regain-social-significance/)!
Architectural education [is
broken](http://www.dezeen.com/2013/04/18/sam-jacob-opinion-architectural-education-crisis/)!
The apex was a recent episode in France where Frank Gehry raised his
middle finger to the press and declared that “98% of everything built
and designed today is pure shit.”

メディアでも相当取り上げられていますから、これはかなりの危機だと言っても差し支えないでしょう。立て続けに流れてくるニュースによれば、「建築は崩壊寸前だ！」「現代建築はとても見れたものじゃない」「建築家の存在感は失われた」「建築にまつわる教育はうまくいっていない」そうです。こういった流れが最も顕著になった事件が先日フランスで起こりました。著名建築家のフランク・ゲーリーが記者に向かって中指を突き立て、「今日、設計され建築されるものの98％はゴミでしかない」と言い放ったのです。

> I beg to differ slightly from Gehry. It’s this whole crisis that is
> pure shit.

ゲーリーのこの意見には、申し訳ないけれど賛同できません。僕の考えはちょっと違っていて、「危機」として騒ぎ立てられている状況こそが「ゴミでしかない」と思っています。

Architecture is on the verge of a golden age, but it feels like a
catastrophe to the established critics and tastemakers whose power is
being wrested away by the public — the people who actually use
architecture. This fundamental shift in architecture is happening thanks
to [social
media.](http://blog.ted.com/2014/03/18/the-future-of-architecture-will-be-instagrammed-marc-kushner-at-ted2014/)

建築は今まさに黄金期にさしかかろうとしています。ですが、一方でそれは、有名評論家やヒットメーカーからすれば災難のようにしか見えないでしょう。建築を実際に利用している人々の手によって、自分達の既得権益が奪われていってしまうからです。そして、建築にまつわる根本を揺るがすこの変化をもたらしているのは、ソーシャルメディアなのです。

![](https://d262ilb51hltx0.cloudfront.net/max/600/1*mAmPi86s-J_HkBgZh9-fJA.png)

![](https://d262ilb51hltx0.cloudfront.net/max/600/1*puIFLiux95vhpjRqcgHHxQ.png)

Take a moment to think about how you consume architecture. Five thousand
years ago, you had to walk to a city to see a building. As faster modes
of transportation developed, the upper-class [Grand
Tours](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grand_Tour) of the 17th through the
19th centuries became accessible to everyone in the 20th. People could
travel faster, explore farther, and experience more of the built
environment.

建築がどのようにして人々に取り入れられているか、少し考えてみましょう。5000年前、建物を見るにはその街まで歩いていくしかありませんでした。ですが、17～19世紀にかけては上流階級にのみ可能であったグランドツアーが、20世紀に入り交通手段が高速化されるにつれ誰でも行けるものになったのです。より早く移動し、より遠くへたどり着けるようになったので、より多くの建造物（と人工の周辺環境）を見て回れるようになりました。

Media has accelerated too, of course. Just 20 years ago, you could only
see buildings on a printed page that had passed the discerning eye of a
magazine editor. Now, social media means the consumption of architecture
is both instantaneous and freed from geography; it has transcended the
historic limits of time and space. That means that a selfie taken in
Seattle with OMA’s sharp Seattle Public Library in the background
becomes a part of our collective consciousness, and this happens faster
and with more authority than with buildings of the past. Despite its
radical new forms and the unorthodox arrangement of its spaces, the
library has become Seattle.

建築を伝える媒体も、この期間に大きく発展しました。わずか20年前でさえ、建築を見られる媒体は印刷物しかなく、しかもそこに載るのは雑誌編集者によって選びぬかれた建築に限られていました。けれど、これまで建築を取り入れる際ににつきものであった時間と場所の制約を、ソーシャルメディアが取り払ってくれたのです。どういうことかというと、シアトル中央図書館（Office for Metropolitan Architecture によって建てられました）をバックに撮られた自撮り写真の例にもあるように、建築と場所の結びつきがみんなの共通認識になっていくのです。さらにその働きは、現代建築の場合においてより早く大きな意味を持って広がっていきます。シアトル中央図書館の形状や空間の使い方はまさに異端ですが、いまやすっかりシアトルの代名詞となりました。

> Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter are fomenting the biggest revolution
> in architecture since the invention of steel, concrete, and the
> elevator.\
> It is a media revolution.

これはまさに、鉄・コンクリート・エレベーターの発明以来の最大級の変革が Instagram、Facebook、Twitter によって建築にもたらされていることを意味します。伝える媒体、メディアの革命ともいえるでしょう。

![](https://d262ilb51hltx0.cloudfront.net/max/600/1*Vh2eLD4EmOQe6WjmojMQ1Q.png)

![](https://d262ilb51hltx0.cloudfront.net/max/600/1*dkPllsUwY2FnLqC_BfYdMQ.png)

In the past, architects never had a truly unfiltered means by which they
could hear the public’s reaction to their work, so they necessarily
relied on the critics. Now, thanks to faster communication, the barriers
surrounding the architectural conversation have been broken down. Today,
every single person who lays eyes on a building can be at once a user,
an architectural photographer, and a critic with a public forum — even
if that criticism is simply “I luv that” or “check me out I am in
Seattle.”

これまで、自分の仕事に対するみんなの反応を知りたいと建築家が思っても、生の声を聞く機会はありませんでした。したがって、反応を知るには評論家達に頼らざるをえなかったのです。けれど、コミュニケーションが簡単になったおかげで、その両方が簡単になったおかげで、建築にまつわるやりとりを妨げるものがなくなったのです。今では、建物に目を留めた人は誰でも、利用者・建築写真家・建築評論家（公開議論ができる場所あり）の一人三役をこなせるようになりました。たとえ批評が「これ最高っ！」とか「ねえ見て、いまシアトルにいるの！」のようなちょっとしたものであっても、その役割に変わりはありません。

Like a lot of professions, architecture has long suffered from the
reverberations of its own echo chamber. The lack of outside input has
created a peculiar — and some would say adorable — subculture of
black-clad bespectacled people who use highfalutin language to describe
everyday places (I guess an alley is a liminal space). Part of that
subculture has been the evolution of styles and movements that loosely
define an era: The ’70s was Brutalism, the ’80s Post Modernism, the ’90s
Deconstructivism.

専門職にありがちな話ですが、建築という仕事もまた、エコー・チェンバー現象に悩まされてきました。外部からの意見を取り込んでこなかった結果、特異な（望ましい、という人もいますが。）状況に落ちいってしまったのです。具体的には、どこにでもあるような建物を誇大な表現を使って批評する、黒ずくめでメガネの人達が作る業界風土のようなものが形成されてしまいました（路地はリミナルスペース、境界空間だと思うんですよね）。その時々を定義づけるような主義や動きの盛り上がり（70年代であればブルータリズム、80年代はポスト・モダニズム、90年代は脱構築主義）も、そういった風土を形成するのに一役買ってきました。

The one style that epitomizes our current moment is Experimentalism, and
that is because the echo chamber has been smashed. In my mind, I imagine
a Buckminster Fuller geodesic dome with architects floating around in
black suits and round black glasses talking to each other. Then along
comes the giant wrecking ball of social media banging, banging, banging
on that dome until POP. Whooooooosh! in rush new opinions about
buildings and places.

そして、そういった定義のなかでは、実験主義が現在の流れを最も端的に表していると思います。というのも、実験主義においてはエコー・チェンバーが打ち壊されてしまうからです。バックミンスター・フラーのジオデシック・ドームを思い描いてみてください。まわりにはメガネで黒ずくめの建築家達がいて、何か話をしています。そこへやってくるのがソーシャルメディア、建物解体用の巨大鉄球をドームに何度も叩きつけます。どーん…どーん…ばんっ！ピューーーー！！建物や場所に関する意見が、堰を切ったように流れこんでくるのです。

> Social media has infiltrated and ultimately destroyed the insular
> architectural world. For the first time in history, architects can
> hear the public.

島国化しガラパゴス化してしまった建築の世界に、ソーシャルメディアは侵入し、それを破壊することに成功しました。歴史上初めて、建築家がみんなの意見を聞けるようになったのです。

The first crack in the echo chamber was at the dawn of the new millenium
when — ironically enough, given his recent claim — the Frank
Gehry-designed Guggenheim Bilbao opened in 1997. The internet was
nascent, but, as Paul Goldberger explained at the time, it “was one of
those rare moments when critics, academics and the general public were
all completely united” in their opinion about a building — they loved
it. And it showed: Tourism in Bilbao increased 2500 percent after the
museum opened.

思い起こせばこのエコー・チェンバーに初めて亀裂が入ったのは、新しい千年紀を迎える直前です。1997年、フランク・ゲーリーが設計したビルバオ・グッゲンハイム美術館がオープンしたときのことでした（直近の発言を踏まえると皮肉な話ではあります）。1997年といえばインターネットはまだ発展途上でしたが、ポール・ゴールドバーガーの当時の発言によれば、その建物をどう思うかについて、「評論家・研究者・一般市民が本当に珍しいことに一つにまとまった」ときだったのです。これは最高だ、と。それは数字にも現れています。美術館のオープン後、ビルバオ市の観光事業は2500％も拡大したのです。

Bilbao launched another major crisis in architecture: the crisis of the
“starchitect.” Even if you don’t follow architecture, you have probably
heard of Zaha, Libeskind, and Rem. While the critics pondered the
efficacy of a personality-driven profession, these select few architects
happily exploited the changing media landscape.

一方ビルバオ市の例は、建築に新たな危機を生じさせました。スターアーキテクト（starchitect、著名建築家）危機です。建築に興味がなかったとしても、Zaha、Libeskind、Rem といった名前を聞いたことがあるかと思います。評論家達が個性駆動建築の有効性について議論を重ねていた裏で、彼らのような選ばれし建築家達は変わりつつあるこの状況を嬉々として活用していったのです。

What starchitects discovered was the public craving for innovation in
civic projects. As they built more, mayors around the world realized
that audacious architecture could raise the profile of their cities on a
global scale. This craving for newness has accelerated exponentially in
parallel with our ability to share information. After all, what is the
point of taking a selfie in Seattle if Seattle looks exactly like
Philadelphia?

その過程でスターアーキテクト達が発見したのは、市民は都市プロジェクトに目新しさを強く求めている、ということでした。彼らがその要望にそって仕事を進めた結果、今度は世界中の首長達が「大胆で自由な建築は、我が都市の知名度を世界規模でおし上げてくれる」と気づくようになります。そして、目新しさを強く求めるこの傾向は、情報共有が容易になったことによって飛躍的に助長されることになるのです。考えてもみてください。シアトルの町並みがフィラデルフィアと瓜二つだったとしたら、シアトルで自撮りすることが特別じゃなくなると思いませんか。

> The proliferation of social media means that the extreme
> experimentation that was once the exclusive provenance of big-name
> starchitects is now the defining architectural movement of our age.

ソーシャルメディアが拡大したことで、際立って実験的な建築に取り組むことは著名建築家だけに許された仕事の進め方ではなくなりました。それはいまや、現代建築をめぐる流れを定義づけるまでになっているのです。

![](https://d262ilb51hltx0.cloudfront.net/max/800/1*dkPllsUwY2FnLqC_BfYdMQ.png)

There is no crisis in architecture. The sense of crisis is just a
byproduct of the punctured echo chamber. It is architecture’s giant
sucking sound. If you listen closely, you will realize that it is being
generated by a group of critics and opinion makers who are struggling
with a new paradigm where the public calls the shots. This is a world
without a dominant style, which confuses the old guard. This is an
architecture that — because of the public’s hunger for newness — is
finally free to create thoughtful and sometimes radical solutions for
the problems that our society faces.

建築に危機なんて訪れていません。危機のように感じられるものがあるとしたら、それはきっと大穴が開いてしまったエコー・チェンバーの副産物にすぎません。建築がスーっと息を吸い込む時の巨大な音だと思ってください。注意して耳を傾けてみればわかるはずです。危機だと思っていたものを生み出していたのは評論家や御意見番達だということが。彼らは、一般市民に決定権があるこの新しいパラダイムを受け入れられずにいるのです。こうなると「有力な主義」などというものがなくなるので、古株達は迷い戸惑ってしまうわけです。市民が斬新さを渇望することで生まれたこの流れによって、思慮の行き届いた、そしてときに急進的な方法で社会が直面する諸問題を解決することがようやっとできるようになったのです。

> Architects don’t make golden ages in architecture; people and patrons
> do. Social media has awoken the public’s interest in
> architecture — and the timing could not be better. Building things
> comes with high stakes because architecture doesn’t just reflect our
> society but shapes our society.

建築家が建築の黄金期を作るのではありません。一般の人々や支援者達が作るのです。ソーシャルメディアのおかげで、人々は建築に興味を持ってくれるようになりました。まさにこれ以上ないタイミングです。一方、建築における「伸るか反るか」の要素は高まっています。これまで、建築は社会を反映するものでしたが、これからはそこにとどまらず社会を形作っていくようになるからです。

To my fellow architects, I say keep imagining and fighting for better
buildings. There is now a public that craves innovation. If we listen to
them instead of the voices proclaiming doom and gloom, we will be able
to seize the opportunity of this new golden age. This is going to be an
amazing time

親愛なる建築家のみなさん、想像力を豊かに、これからもすばらしい建造物を築くべく戦っていきましょう。革新を求める市民の皆さんがいます。彼らの声に耳を傾けましょう。悲観をまき散らす声に耳を傾けてはいけません。そうすれば、きっとこの新しい黄金期でチャンスをつかめるはずです。素晴らしい時代がもうすぐ幕を開けますよ。

* * * * *

![](https://d262ilb51hltx0.cloudfront.net/max/600/1*eRgZBUorAaGrRjbjJrh0SA.jpeg)

*Marc Kushner, AIA, is an architect with just one agenda — he wants you
to love architecture. As partner at progressive New York architecture
firm*[*HWKN (Hollwich Kushner)*](http://www.hwkn.com/)*and co-founder
of*[Architizer](http://www.architizer.com/)*, Marc is a celebrated
designer and pioneer in the digital media industry, continually striving
to find new ways to help the world not just like but fall in love with
architecture. You can see Marc’s TED talk on*30 Years of Architecture
History**[*here*](http://www.ted.com/talks/marc_kushner_why_the_buildings_of_the_future_will_be_shaped_by_you)*,
or buy his book,*The Future of Architecture in 100
Buildings*,*[*here*](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1476784922/?tag=tedbook_marckushner-20)*.*

建築家である Marc Kushner（アメリカ建築家会員）が掲げる方針はただひとつ、「あなたに建築を好きになってもらいたい」だけです。ニューヨークにある新進気鋭の建築事務所である HWKN のパートナーであり Architizer の共同創業者である Marc は、著名な建築士であり、デジタルメディア業界を切り開いてもきました。そんな彼の挑戦は終わりません。世界中の人々に、建築をただ好きになってもらうだけでなく、本当に大好きになってもらいたいと考えているからです。建築の30年史に関する Marc のTED トークはこちらからご覧いただけます。著書「The Future of Architecture in 100 Buildings」はこちらからお買い求めいただけます。
